jAgent
======
Version 1.0

Metadata
--------
When executed, **jAgent** adds a list of classes to the `<html>` tag of the page. These classes represent the client's browser features, and every class corresponds to an specific feature. Below you can see an example of the `<html>` tag after executing **jAgent**:

    <html class="webkit chrome chrome_22 mac mac_10 mac_10_8 orientation_landscape">

As you can see, the above tag belongs to a page loaded in Chrome version 22 on a Mac OS X 10.8 (Mountain Lion), and the orientation of the browser is landscape (meaning the browser is wider than it's tall). We'll talk later a bit more about [orientation](#orientation).

### Main tags
Here is the list with all the main tags created by *jAgent*. This list contains the _base_ tags only. You'll see later how some these main tags will be combined with versions to create a new set of useful features.

- **Browser Engine**: gecko, webkit
- **Browser**: chrome, safari, msie, firefox, opera, konqueror, iron
- **Operating System**: mac, windows, freebsd, linux
- **Mobile**: mobile, ios, android, ipad, iphone, ipod, kindle, blackberry, playbook, j2me 
- **Orientation**: orientation_portrait, orientation_landscape
- **Additional Features**: retina

### Versioning
Browser and Operating System tags will also include their version number when available. This way you have even more control over your page for different versions of the same browser/OS. Below you can see some example tags generated by **jAgent**:

- **Microsoft Windows**: windows_nt, windows_2000, windows_xp, windows_vista, windows_7, windows_8
- **Apple Mac OS**: mac_10, mac_10_8, mac_10_7, …
- **iOS**: ios_6, ios_5_1, …
- **Browsers**: chrome_22, firefox_16, safari_6_0, …

### Orientation
The orientation attribute represents the screen orientation state of the device where the page was loaded. This value will be computed using the `window.onorientationchange` event, and will be changed accordingly every time the user turns the device. For non-mobile devices, this attribute is computed based on the `width` and `height` of the browser window. If `width >= height` then the browser is considered to be in `landscape` mode, while if `width < height` `portrait` will be returned.

### Additional Features
Here are some other features that will be added as tags for your convenience:
- **retina**: Present on devices with retina display. A device is considered to have retina display when `window.devicePixelRatio === 2`.

Methods
-------
Another useful feature of **jAgent** is an interface with some JavaScript methods to help test the existence of the same features that we've seen so far. Below is the complete list of supported methods:

- $.jagent.isMobile()
- $.jagent.isIOS()
- $.jagent.isAndroid()
- $.jagent.isIPad()
- $.jagent.isIPhone()
- $.jagent.isIPod()
- $.jagent.isKindle()
- $.jagent.isBlackberry()
- $.jagent.isPlaybook()
- $.jagent.isJ2ME()
- $.jagent.isRetina()
- $.jagent.isPortrait()
- $.jagent.isLandscape()
- $.jagent.isChrome()
- $.jagent.isFirefox()
- $.jagent.isSafari()
- $.jagent.isMSIE()

Example
-------
Let's take a look to a very simple example of how to use **jAgent**.

Start by downloading the [library](https://github.com/svpino/jagent/blob/master/jquery.jagent.js). Make sure you reference it in your project along with the latest version of jQuery. The following code will do it for you:

    <script src="//ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.8.2/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script src="jquery.jagent.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

Add a `<div>` tag anywhere in your page:

	<div class='sample'></div>
		
Now add the following CSS code to your styles:
 
	.sample { width: 200px; height: 200px; }
    .chrome .sample { background-color: Red; }
    .firefox .sample { background-color: Green; }
    .msie .sample { background-color: Blue; }
    .msie8 .sample { background-color: Yellow; }
    
You can go ahead now and load the page in a browser. As you may imagine, the color of the `<div>` we added depends on the browser we are loading the page in. In Chrome the color will be red, meanwhile Internet Explorer will display it blue unless it's IE 8, which will display the `<div>` in yellow.

For a more complex example, download the [example folder](https://github.com/svpino/jagent/tree/master/example) included in the project repository.   